{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\lang9 Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning | Batch 1 - Day 21 Overview\par
DAY 21 AGENDA\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs24 Regression\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Multiple Regression\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Regression-assumption/Diagnostic\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Logistic Regression\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Single predictor\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Multiple Predictor\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28 Regression :\b0\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs24 Logistic Regression is a part of supervised learning.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Regression is a dependence technique and correlation is an inter-dependence technique that is there is no dependent and independent variable.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Regression is Dependence technique where we have dependent and independent techniques.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}The purpose of regression is used to find how much one variable is dependent on the other variable. That is how much the dependent variable changes based on the independent variable.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}To find the causal effect dependence and R2 is the deciding factor that tells us how much.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}When both variables is continuous we go for linear regression.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Simple Regression is one dependent and one independent variable\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Multiple Regression has many independent variables and one dependent variable.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}When we go for linear regression the graph showing the regression line is a straight line.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28 Example Of Linear Regression:\b0\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs24 In the example, we have the dataset that has recorded as of how much is the price for specific square feet of the house .\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}We will plot the diagram y-axis should be the dependent variable and the other should be the independent variable.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}We will find R2 which will help us to decide the dependence of the Price of the flat on the Square feet of the flat.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}The coefficient is the constant value that we will have to add to every flat and minimum that value is what you have to pay when we have to buy a flat for the builder.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}For every extra square feet .10977 dollars, you have to add to the minimum value that is the coefficient.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}For every square fete minimum of 33.74 dollars and a maximum of 185.8 dollars, you have to pay on every square foot.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}So we frame the equation that is house price =98.25+.1098(sq.ft).\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28 Multiple Regression :\b0\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs24 When we have multiple independent variables and only one dependent variable we use multiple regression.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}In the previous problem, we can add many more independent variables like no of room and the floor and area so these are the other factors that matter as well, and when we consider all the features we use multiple regression.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28 Regression-assumption/Diagnostic :\b0\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs24 Heteroskedasticity: If the independent are distributed in a different  manner it is heteroskedasticity. We check the Distribution and check if it passes the test of heteroskedasticity. When the variable is distributed in the same manner. So the different variables should be distributed in different ways and not the same way.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Multi-colinearity: It means that if all the independent variables should be correlated. So for the regression test, this test should fail that is we should not have the independent variables correlated.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Autocorrelation: It means that the dependent and independent variables should be correlated with each other. The thing should pass this test.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28 Logistic Regression :\b0\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs24 It is the same as linear regression.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Here we do not need to normalize the data.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}The dependent variable is binary categorical and independent variables and categorical and continuous.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Binary means only two that are true, false, yes, no, pass, fail, etc.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}We first need to frame the linear equation.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}For logistics, we have a standard equation.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Where p is the probability.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Probability ranges from 0 to 1.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}The odds ratio is p/(1-p).\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Odds equal to a linear equation.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}In linear regression, we have a straight upward curve.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}In logistic regression, we get an S-shaped curve.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28 Single predictor :\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs24 Here we have independent variables as the income of a person.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Dependent is that if the bank will give a loan or not.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}The single predictor model has one independent and one dependent variable..\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Multiple predictor has many independent variables.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}We find the different values that are required in the equation.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}When we plot this equation we get an S-shaped curve.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}We can plot the graph and using the curve we can find the probability of a person with an income getting loan or not.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}0.50 is the cut-off value.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28 Multiple Predictor:\b0\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs24 Here we have many independent variables.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Here we will find the p-value and check the ones that have a p-value less than 0.05.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}These are the significant variables.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}The ones that have the value as 0 are the most significant variables.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}p(loan)=1/(1+e-(-13.2-0.044(age)=0.056(experience)=0.065(income)\'85.) so we can add the other variables .\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28 Hands on in Python:\b0\fs22\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i\fs24 import pandas\par
load data set\par
y=dataset.Admit #Declaring the dependent variable\par
x=dataset[[feature,feature,feature]] #Declaring the independent variable\par
import statsmodels.api as sm\par
x1=sm.add_constant(x) #adding the constant for the equation\par
Logisitic=sm.Logit(y,x1)\par
result=Logistic.fit()#Developed the model\par
result.summary()\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\i0\fs28 Assignment:\b0\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Perform Logistic Regression for\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Bank Loan Modeling\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Attrition Analysis\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Linear Regression:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Real Estate Analysis\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Make inferences based on all these Regression tests.\par
}
 